gh-142560: bytearray: prevent UAF in search-like methods by exporting self buffer (#142564)
python/cpython: Misc/NEWS.d/next/Library/2025-12-11-22-59-33.gh-issue-142560.GkJrkk.rst

> Fix a potential use‑after‑free in bytearray search‑like methods by exporting the buffer during the call. bytearray.split() and bytearray.rsplit() now also export the buffer; subclasses overriding the buffer protocol may observe behavior changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fix use-after-free in :class:`bytearray` search-like methods 
(:func:`~bytearray.find`, :func:`~bytearray.count`, :func:`~bytearray.index`
:func:`~bytearray.rindex`, and :func:`~bytearray.rfind`) by marking the storage as 
exported which causes reallocation attempts to raise :exc:`BufferError`. For 
:func:`~bytearray.contains`, :func:`~bytearray.split`, and 
:func:`~bytearray.rsplit` the :ref:`buffer protocol <bufferobjects>` is used
for this.
```

Reviewer: (the `~` in the references will make the starting `bytearray.` part go away while keeping them links to the right doc which makes the news entry that will show up in the changelog a lot less text than this looks)

Fix a potential use‑after‑free in :class:`bytearray` search‑like methods by

> exporting the instance’s buffer to prevent reallocation during the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
exporting the instance's buffer to prevent reallocation during the
```

> operation.

Reviewer: Should include in the changelog the changes to `split` and `rsplit`

Author: split and rsplit are not changed in this pr

Reviewer: The code is touched in the PR (https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/142564/changes#diff-6878f29bbfb711dc7cd2a89b2b2941b1f900b6367d30181a2ff45460b591b04cL1890 / line 1909 is the implementation `byearray_rsplit_impl`). 

While buffer protocol on bytearray _should_ return the same values as `PyByteArray_AS_STRING` and `PyByteArray_GET_SIZE` that isn't guaranteed. A `bytearray` subclass can override the buffer protocol implementation and before this change that wouldn't matter (`.rsplit` didn't use the buffer protocol), while after it will get called which is a user-visible change. Not something I think happens often, but want to capture all the changes in the change log so if someone does have unexpected behavior inside `byearray.rsplit` come up in an upgrade they have a trail of breadcrumbs back to here which makes resolving a lot easier.

Reviewer: The `bytearray.contains` case also now calls buffer protocol which is a similar user-visible change

Author: ix a potential use‑after‑free in bytearray search‑like methods by exporting the buffer during the call. bytearray.split() and bytearray.rsplit() now also export the buffer; subclasses overriding the buffer protocol may observe behavior changes.

> Fix use-after-free in :class:`bytearray` search-like methods (:func:`~bytearray.find`, :func:`~bytearray.count`, :func:`~bytearray.index`, :func:`~bytearray.rindex`, and :func:`~bytearray.rfind`) by marking the storage as exported which causes reallocation attempts to raise :exc:`BufferError`. For :func:`~bytearray.contains`, :func:`~bytearray.split`, and :func:`~bytearray.rsplit` the :ref:`buffer protocol <bufferobjects>` is used for this.

Reviewer: My bad on the 

```rst
:func:`~bytearray.contains`
```

 should change to
```rst
 :func:`~operator.contains` 
```

Author: i change it to bytearray.__contains__ is it ok ?

Reviewer: Yea, either works for me if the docs check passes; it's mainly just `bytearray.contains` isn't a thing which I forgot when drafting that news bit / it's the `in` keyword and related infrastructure.
